So when you talk about some of the alternative services that you can use for quote unquote home sharing
there are two that I'm going to bring up.
One is V.R. below and the other one is room or Ramah the RBO stands for vacation rental by owner.
So now that finally makes sense.
And you're not going to be saying very bow everywhere and rumor Rahma it's room or omma not room.
Ramah so I'm going to talk a little bit about the reason why they are worth knowing is that they are
alternative sources of bookings for your apartment.
I personally consider Air B and B the main dish and the RBO room aroma as the side dish is a side note.
If you've heard of home away home away is a connection.
It's kind of the same thing as V RBO I believe is the same company.
Usually I suggest looking into Villarrubia and room Ramah at the end.
Once you're done once you've figured out the system that works for Air B and B the reason why I say
that is because Air B and B is the most comprehensive of the systems.
They have the best user interface they have the best user experience they have the most listings and
the most booking.
So you want to spend the majority of your time optimizing for Air B and B and then everything you've
done for Air B and B will transfer over to RBO and room Marama you're going to be taking the same photographs
figuring out your own system figuring out the best listings to get the best bookings.
There are some eccentricities with the RBO and room drama that are worth knowing but you're not going
to spend more than an hour adjusting your listing for each one.
Technically and this is the reason why I do this is a separate one section lecture on these two.
It's that Air B and B is disproportionately more popular than these other two combined.
Typically when I take a booking or reservation I get probably eight bookings before I get one on room
drama or one on the RBO.
Think about it as a supplement to your air PNB experience and I believe that most people do it that
way.
RB NBC is going to bring home the bacon and Villarrubia and Ruma drama are good if you are interested
in one having more options.
So it might be the case that over a weekend you know you want to travel for the weekend.
So wants to rent it but they only want to run it for one night on Airbnb.
And you're thinking well I'm not going to maximize my money while I'm gone.
It might be the case that Villarrubia or rumor Ramas someone else has made an inquiry for two days of
that month.
You know it is obviously hypothetical but it's it's very possible.
You want to cast your net as widely as possible for these types of situations.
The second reason why I think it's worth posting on there is if you're the type that is looking to get
the most bookings say you're going to travel for a month and you want the whole thing filled.
It's very helpful to have these because they're going to help you cap off your rental.
The difference between having three weeks filled and having four weeks filled it is actually surprisingly
high.
It's a big difference.
In the case of my apartment that's difference between pulling and $10000 a month or $14000 a month the
extra 4000 is purely profit.
It doesn't go into the fixed costs and it's not as if my variable costs are that much higher for those
who are not familiar with those terms fixed costs means costs that do not fluctuate with the amount
of bookings you have.
So $3000 rent that's a fixed cost variable costs would be things that costs that go up.
The more bookings you have in this case more bookings It means more cleaning my fees for cleaning might
go up.
For maintenance and repairs might go up.
So a little bit about each one V.R. be so it's more of a vacation rental service vacation rental by
owner.
If you go to their website they work entirely different than air B and B you have to pay a fee upfront
just to get onto their Web site.
You have no idea if it's worthwhile or not.
They have tears.
So I believe there is a bronze and silver and gold tier and it starts at I believe $300 a year and it
goes all the way to a platinum which is twelve hundred dollars a year in what they promise you is the
more you pay the more visibility you get.
Very hard an equation to balance if I pay an extra thousand dollars listing and be RBO how many more
booking inquiries am I going to get any more bookings.
I can tell you right now that generally it's going to be worth it not necessarily getting a twelve hundred
dollar package but on a dollar to a dollar value it's always going to be worth it.
If I rent it out for one night on the RBO and I spent $300 a year I broke even on the RBO and that's
the way I look at it and it's not realistic to think that they're not going to get you any bookings
at all and they're at least going to get you inquiries and after they get you increases up to you.
So if the RBA has this paywall to get into it you can go and check it out.
And I'm sure you guys are looking at it right now and I can put up a screenshot on this so you can see
it.
It's not nearly as pretty.
The biggest difference here you'll notice is that a lot of the people listening are not actually people.
They're vacation rental companies.
And that's an important distinction.
It's not really the home sharing experience you get an Air B and B it's not that you're going to get
real a chatty experience with the host and you're not going to get a lot of tips and tricks and what's
the best thing to do in my city it's more like a we own a summer home and we'd like to put it up and
rent it out and at least get some occupancy the RBO.
Typically I see it more popular with groups and families they see it as more professional more of a
standardized experience inside the app.
They make a lot of their money from you paying to promote your listing when you're on TV RBO you'll
notice that it's actually quite difficult to find different listings.
It's not as well-designed as Arabs can be.
Their search function is kind of confusing.
And typically this is what happens when people pay to have more visibility skews it towards well.
Am I seeing the most popular property or my seeing the best funded property.
That's one of the reasons why I ask you a way from the RBO and towards there being BE THERE A B and
B is going to rank you based off of the customer experience quality.
And so when you see it apartment it's already rated as the best apartment for what you're looking for
and the best whole experience not who pay it the most because typically in my experience vacation rental
companies know exactly what you're getting.
It's not even particularly that much different than a hotel.
People have a little bit extra money to spend.
Would like to have a kitchen attached to their hotel.
Not a huge different value proposition.
In my opinion from hotels a goofy side story.
I live in the Fisherman's Wharf area of San Francisco and there's a coffee shop that I used to always
squat at because I am a caffeine addict and I would always have sort of the same window always looking
at the same Duplaix.
One of the things that kind of occurred to me over time was that that Duplaix never had anyone coming
out of it what is going on with this duplex is no one lived there I've never seen the lights on.
Kind of crazy considering the occupancy rate.
SAN FRANCISCO It's insane.
There's no unused space unless it's purposely being held off the market.
One day I found that duplex on the RBO what ends up happening is I think that the owner just came up
to a vacation rental company and said hey this is my space please run out for me.
That's my guess.
I think that's a silly decision because why would you outsource the management of your apartment when
it requires such little upkeep to begin with.
And I'll talk more about how this really is quite passive income when you're running out and home sharing.
It's not as much work as you think it is.
It's on the RBO.
It's not an Air B and B and no one's ever coming out of it.
Meaning that's just never rented.
So I know obviously they would've taken it down off the RBO if it wasn't getting them enough money to
cover their expenses.
My guess is they probably just own it so they don't really have that much expenses besides property
taxes.
It's worth checking out.
They have account managers that can answer a lot of questions about the RBO And if you guys have questions
about my experience there you can always just post are in the group discussions.
I mean from message I could tell you a little bit more about it a little bit of warning.
I don't have a ton of experience with it.
My experience was that the inquiries you get are more skittish and this is something you get in a room
or Ramas while they're hit and runs is what I call them they message you they are interest in the property
you respond because you're a great host you respond within an hour.
And if they don't respond nothing happens that's kind of a feature of the substandard home sharing Web
sites.
One thing you need to understand RBO.
They do not work like Airbnb in the sense that when someone books your property they don't take their
money from them at that point.
Why is that important.
Say you have someone who wants to rent it for a week in the summer on air B and B and you want someone
who wants to run on V RBO for a week in the summer.
You'd think they're equal right home sharing services have the same price on both of them will end up
happening is that with the RBA they book it they don't really pay for it.
So what they'll do is they'll show up that week look at the property and then they actually have the
option to say no I don't want to stay here.
That happens your apartment's empty.
You just wasted a week of listing your property.
If you have a nice apartment and you advertise it correctly I don't think that's something that's going
to happen all the time.
I mean it seems odd that that would ever I'm going to talk a little bit about another property in our
space.
They would use the RBO and they had a huge problem with people showing up and saying no not interested.
You know that $5300 booking that we made.
Sorry we don't want to do it.
That's something you need to take into consideration Air B and B has a cancellation policy the RBO does
as well as A B and B has the ability to enforce that cancellation policy.
So when all things equal I would always take Air B and B so that's another thing yet I think about the
RBO they show up and see the apartment then decide if they want to stay.
That means that if you're out of the country and you want to rent this out.
Who's going to show off your apartment getting a little bit less passive.
The more you think about it because we have to be there to show the keys to have to wear a suit do have
to smile a lot when I talk to them.
How does that work.
Take that into consideration.
That's a weird feature of them and the way that they do it is once they decide to book I believe they
give you a code and once you put that payment code in RBO they've established that that person wants
to pay.
That's the most efficient way of telling whether or not someone wants to book your apartment is by a
secret code they keep in their pocket and they give it to you.
So that was my experience and typically I kind of shy away from the RBO.
They have similar ways of establishing who is a responsive host to guest owner I'm the owner.
And their situation they're not really hosting them.
You're not going to get people who are really going to be engaged in the area that they're traveling
to.
That also means that they're going to be less forgiving when it comes to reviewing you think about Airbnb
as they come in and you tell them everything you love about the city and you give them all sorts of
tips and tricks and if their toilet breaks or your stove light stops working your pilot light in your
stove is not working they're going to give you the benefit of doubt that they know the day they're going
to think of you and then think oh I don't want it you know trash this person's review if you RBO they
don't know you.
They are used to having real estate agents show them the properties where they rent them.
If anybody has had experience of the RBO I would love to hear about it.
Put it in the group discussion say Hey Evan you're not right I'll use the RBO and it's everything to
me it saved my marriage.
Let me know.
I mean maybe some of them around other people have figured this out.
And if you guys want more information on the RBO that's something you can also ask in maybe it's something
I'll add it's additional lecture later on when I can do a little bit more research and explain more
of the centricity that are involved with the service so quickly over to room drama and please forgive
me if I sound unduly sarcastic about rumors but rumor omma the way I see them is they are RB and B's
ugly unfriendly and just generally unpleasant to be around.
SR they are a company that if you go to their Web site it looks like it was designed over the weekend.
Maybe they've updated their website.
I just recently looked at it and it looks like they've figured out hey maybe we should make our buttons
work.
My memory room drama is that it just doesn't look professional.
And you'll notice when you go on there they just kind of went after this flat design which I think is
a bit lazy but they've been really imitating a lot of it.
SBN does.
At the same time they're not Air B and B.
When you book the room drama it's the same thing as the RBO.
Chances are that house is not going to be nearly as responsive or nearly as engaged in your stay.
One thing you'll notice on the room a Rama is that most of the listings on there are also an Air B and
B.
The one thing you'll notice though is that the rates there typically will be higher.
Why are they higher.
I believe it's because there's a little bit more risk with room drama and risk in the sense of it since
the site is so ugly.
It's going to take a lot more effort to get people to look which means that your time spent on their
Web site is getting more time for less bookings.
Also one of the bigger things I think and this is another thing of the RBO is that the insurance policy
and I'm going to have a separate lecture talking about the insurance policies because it's very important
for you to understand to understand how your B and B handles complaints damage things like that.
How do you deal with homeowner's insurance.
Every single one of these home sharing sites has a different way of doing it.
The biggest difference that I'm going to condense in just a couple senses rumor Ahman the RBO do not
offer as much insurance.
The RBO is $50000 room or Omma.
I'm not sure I'll look it up and I'll include it in a tax file and the references M.B.A. $1000000 covered
for anything that could be associated with the stay.
That's a much bigger liability pool to draw from.
And the other ones not so much more risk you need more reward.
Typically prices are going to be higher than that room Ramah works for us and one of the RBO you trade
payment keys to get paid.
Past that I mean you'll notice when you on the Web site it looks scarily like Airbnb the rumor omma
has one of these interesting features that some of you might enjoy this.
I did not have a great experience with it.
They have these things called shout outs.
They shout out is the reverse of how someone bucks an apartment.
Usually you come on the Web site you say I want to stay in this area.
I like this price.
I like this person I will message them hello I'd like to see your apartment.
Rumor has it the opposite way.
They have a feature where you can go on and say hey I'm coming this is how many people there are this
is my budget.
Hey why don't you come pitch me as a consumer maybe that's kind of cool.
As a house that's I think a waste because you have to think about the mentality of someone who does
that you don't get a shout out and you're saying I want to stay for five nights for a thousand dollars
and $500 usually what that means is that one you didn't take the time to actually look in other areas
to see what you wanted to see if that fit your budget.
And if they did do that then it's number two which is that their budget probably doesn't fit into a
budget mismatch generally or it's an effort mismatch maybe they're just like hey I'm just going to throw
this out.
Maybe someone will come and say yes.
Stay at my beautifully appointed apartment and you can stay for $50 a night.
Maybe that will work right.
That's kind of my experience with a lot of these shout outs will come out and they'll just completely
unrealistic.
They don't even know what sometimes when they're coming.
Maybe that's something you guys can work to your advantage.
I love if any of you guys have experience with this you just figured out a way of it everybody gets
him a shout out.
And you made your best friends from it let me know because I'll come back and change my opinion on this.
It's never worked for me.
I think maybe because room drama is again like I get probably one inquiry per 10 that I get on Air B
and B so I never really put the effort into figuring out their system.
I don't particularly think it's worth it.
Generally what I like I said you focus on Air B and B then you put it on these other outlets you checked
in every now and then but they're not going to be a game changer for you.
I think they're definitely going to move the needle in the sense that you could very easily get an extra
10 percent fill rates in your apartment or maybe you're lucky and you get different offers between the
two.
Like I said DRPA and ROMERIL in my experience very skittish hit and run kind of inquiries hey I'm interested.
Hey I'm gone whether or not you can turn that into people saying I don't know.
Like I said if you guys I'm going to go more into depth on these two services I definitely will I at
this moment do not think they are worth spending a lot of time on.
No offense to the gentleman and to women who made these sites.
Arrington is the big one.
And if the market share Manges in the future I would imagine Airbnb has probably 90 percent of the bookings.
If that changes then it might help to have a little bit about ROOM know a little bit of room around
and be RBO.
The mom and I just don't think it's worth it.
If you are running out a spare home or a spare apartment a lot of people do that you know they own the
building and they live in one unit and they have another unit.
The RBO is going to be good for apartment rentals seating the drama.
Good for apartment rentals.
They do offer shared spaces but why would you book off room drama on a site that just looks like a Nigerian
scam artist designed it.
Why would you choose to go to air B and B.
These are all my opinions don't sue me if you work for these companies but I'm trying to point you in
the right direction as to what's worth spending your time on because that's what this is all about it's
taking the small amount of effort and getting the most income game changeability out of it.